For that, let's start in our stencil project here and in this stencil project, let's first of all have
a look at that stencil config file.
Now that is an important file because this file here is actually responsible for configuring how your
stencil project or how your stencil components get built.
I'll just quickly rerun npm install here because I deleted my Node modules folder in-between, you can just
ignore that,
so let's have a look at what we can set there.
The first thing we can configure in this config object is the namespace.
Now this namespace doesn't matter if you plan on creating a component library that you want to share,
even if you only share it amongst your own projects,
then you want to pick something which is kind of unique here, like udemywc
for web components course
and this is the pattern of how you typically name your namespace. As a next step, you add your output
targets and you can't enter anything there,
instead stencil knows two different types, dist and www. Now the www type spits out a full project which you
could deploy to a static host and that is useful when you build your entire Front-End out of stencil
components and only out of that,
so when you use your stencil components as a replacement for frameworks like React or Angular.
Now I don't want to have this kind of output here so I'll comment this out, instead
here I will go with my dist mode and this mode or this type of project is simply a collection of components
that you can share.
You can also configure that,
for example here you can add a dir item to define in which output folder
these components should be stored in and by default,
that folder is also named dist but you could rename it here. As an important side note,
you can always
stenciljs.com and there, dive into the official docs and then under tooling config,
you will find detailed instructions on how you can configure your project and what all these config
items do, so that can be very helpful for understanding a bit better
what you can configure.
I want to highlight something which they also say here though.
In most cases, this does not need much or any customization because the default config is quite nice.
Now I only want to dive into one other config item and that is the bundles
item. It's not added here and by default, you don't need it.
Bundles allows you to define how your different components are bundled together and as you can see here,
it takes an array of objects where each object describes one code bundle.
Now by default, stencil will go ahead and analyze your components to detect their dependencies,
for example stencil will detect that both the stock finder and price use the spinner component and therefore,
it will spit out code bundles, code files which always include stock finder and spinner or stock price
and spinner but not just one huge bundle which contains all components
because by keeping the bundles as small as possible but as big as required, you can load and stencil will
do that for you,
you can load a component only when it is rendered to the DOM, so only when it is needed
instead of loading all components upfront in the application of where you're using your component bundle.
So you got automated code splitting built into your generated web components because they will only load the
scripts that back them up when they really are required and
that's a default feature baked into stencil and it determines what should go into one code package by
the dependencies it can determine. For example
as I mentioned, since we use uc-spinner and both stock price and stock finder, it will bundle that spinner
into these components packages and load it together with them automatically.
On the other hand when you load stock price or when you use stock price, stencil will not automatically
load stock finder because these two are not really connected.
You could force such a connection though by adding your own object here into the bundles array
and then there you can add a components key and now name all the tags of the components that should
be merged into one code package by stencil but only override that if you know what you're doing,
otherwise stencil will have a smart default of trying to implement as much code splitting as possible
because smaller code bundles of course means that your application where you use your web components
loads up faster.
Now that is already it about this configuration
and again if you want to learn about all the contact items, you can dive into the official docs but the
default should be fine.